soccer_rlcontrol/README.md, before:

# Installation
Make sure you are in the same directory as the README
```shell script
sudo apt-get install python3-tk
python3 -m pip install --user virtualenv
virtualenv -p python3 venv
. venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
Then, install the gym-soccerbot package
```shell script
cd gym-soccerbot
pip install -e .
```

# IDE Setup (Optional)
Change your project python intepretor to the virtual environment that you just created.

Mark the folder soccer_rlcontrol/src as a root directory.
In Pycharm IDE change the intepretor to the virtual environment that has been created
`Settings` > `Project` > `Project Intepretor` > Click on the Gear > `Add` > `Virtualenv Environment` > Existing Intepreter and enter the following:
```shell script
/path/to/workspace/soccer_rlcontrol/venv/bin/python
```
Mark the `soccer_rlcontrol/` as a source root directory by right clicking the `soccer_rlcontrol/` > mark as > sources root

# Training
In a terminal with the activated virtualenv,
```shell script
. venv/bin/activate
```
Use one of the yaml config files in the `rllib_configs` to start the training:
```shell script
rllib train -f rllib_configs/your_config.yaml
```
## Notes on some Yaml file parameters:
- `timesteps_total` How many simulation steps the training will end after.
- `num_gpus` If you have no compatible nVidia nor Radeon, set this to 0. For Radeon GPUs, look into ROCm-based Tensorflow and PyTorch.
- `num_workers` Roughly corresponds to the number of processes you'd like to simultaneously run.
- `num_cpus_per_worker` Set to 0 so that workers aren't bound to a CPU logical core. Note that there exists a driver process that when running with tune (command above included), takes up a CPU logical core by default.
- `num_envs_per_worker` Each worker process can spawn more than just 1 simulation environment. Ultimately having too many environments per worker will hurt the over performance and/or the computer will run out of RAM (although at a lower rate compared to adding workers).
- `*batch*` If you are using a GPU, your VRAM might limit your batch sizes. If you are running out try reducing the parameters involving the `*batch*` keyword, especially `sgd_minibatch_size`.

# Viewing Results
To visually observer the trained agent, consider one of the checkpoints of your desire in the following directory format:
```shell script
./results/name-of-the-yaml-file/RLalgorithm_UsedGymEnironment_ID_DateOfTraining/checkpoint_n/checkpoint-n
```
Use the following command in the terminal while in the virtualenv created earlier:
```shell script
rllib rollout --run <algo> --env <env> --steps <num_steps> --config '{"num_envs_per_worker": 0, "num_workers": 0, "env_config": {"renders": true}}' <checkpoint_path> 
```

Where:
- `<algo>` Is the algorithm the training done with. Look at the `yaml` file used and check for the `run` field value. Replace the argument with the field value from the `yaml` file.
- `<env>` Is the Gym environment agent is trained on. Similar to the procedure for `<algo>`, look for the `env` field value in the `yaml` file.
- `<num_steps>` Defines how many simulation steps the simulation will be running for.
- `<checkpoint_path>` Is the path mentioned. Replace it with the path discussed above.


# Refrences
## Open AI Gym
The framework used to develop custom environments for our reinforcement learning tasks.
Visit Open AI Gym Github repository [here](https://github.com/openai/gym).

## RLLib
We use RLLib as a scalable set of reinforcement learning.
Visit RLLib Github repository [here](https://github.com/ray-project/ray).

## PyBullet
Free physics simulation of our choice for reinforcement learning tasks.
Visit PyBullet Github repository [here](https://github.com/bulletphysics/bullet3).

Commit message:

added local computer friendly yaml file
Former-commit-id: 18162cfd1ce1d3ca8a5b771e6951e78d8502bfc5 [formerly 8f18519cadebff71c1c22c6f3abe4fb05c1fb393]
Former-commit-id: c076d719d771c71079b3c150caf381e8910e8313

soccer_rlcontrol/README.md, after:

# Installation
Make sure you are in the same directory as the README
```shell script
sudo apt-get install python3-tk
python3 -m pip install --user virtualenv
virtualenv -p python3 venv
. venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
Then, install the gym-soccerbot package
```shell script
cd gym-soccerbot
pip install -e .
```

# IDE Setup (Optional)
Change your project python intepretor to the virtual environment that you just created.

Mark the folder soccer_rlcontrol/src as a root directory.
In Pycharm IDE change the intepretor to the virtual environment that has been created
`Settings` > `Project` > `Project Intepretor` > Click on the Gear > `Add` > `Virtualenv Environment` > Existing Intepreter and enter the following:
```shell script
/path/to/workspace/soccer_rlcontrol/venv/bin/python
```
Mark the `soccer_rlcontrol/` as a source root directory by right clicking the `soccer_rlcontrol/` > mark as > sources root

# Training
In a terminal with the activated virtualenv,
```shell script
. venv/bin/activate
```
Use one of the yaml config files (preferably one of the non-server ones to avoid the risk of crashing your computer/VM) in the `rllib_configs` directory to start the training:
```shell script
rllib train -f rllib_configs/your_config.yaml
```
## Notes on some Yaml file parameters:
- `timesteps_total` How many simulation steps the training will end after.
- `num_gpus` If you have no compatible nVidia nor Radeon, set this to 0. For Radeon GPUs, look into ROCm-based Tensorflow and PyTorch.
- `num_workers` Roughly corresponds to the number of processes you'd like to simultaneously run.
- `num_cpus_per_worker` Set to 0 so that workers aren't bound to a CPU logical core. Note that there exists a driver process that when running with tune (command above included), takes up a CPU logical core by default.
- `num_envs_per_worker` Each worker process can spawn more than just 1 simulation environment. Ultimately having too many environments per worker will hurt the over performance and/or the computer will run out of RAM (although at a lower rate compared to adding workers).
- `*batch*` If you are using a GPU, your VRAM might limit your batch sizes. If you are running out try reducing the parameters involving the `*batch*` keyword, especially `sgd_minibatch_size`.

# Viewing Results
To visually observer the trained agent, consider one of the checkpoints of your desire in the following directory format:
```shell script
./results/name-of-the-yaml-file/RLalgorithm_UsedGymEnironment_ID_DateOfTraining/checkpoint_n/checkpoint-n
```
Use the following command in the terminal while in the virtualenv created earlier:
```shell script
rllib rollout --run <algo> --env <env> --steps <num_steps> --config '{"num_envs_per_worker": 0, "num_workers": 0, "env_config": {"renders": true}}' <checkpoint_path> 
```

Where:
- `<algo>` Is the algorithm the training done with. Look at the `yaml` file used and check for the `run` field value. Replace the argument with the field value from the `yaml` file.
- `<env>` Is the Gym environment agent is trained on. Similar to the procedure for `<algo>`, look for the `env` field value in the `yaml` file.
- `<num_steps>` Defines how many simulation steps the simulation will be running for.
- `<checkpoint_path>` Is the path mentioned. Replace it with the path discussed above.


# Refrences
## Open AI Gym
The framework used to develop custom environments for our reinforcement learning tasks.
Visit Open AI Gym Github repository [here](https://github.com/openai/gym).

## RLLib
We use RLLib as a scalable set of reinforcement learning.
Visit RLLib Github repository [here](https://github.com/ray-project/ray).

## PyBullet
Free physics simulation of our choice for reinforcement learning tasks.
Visit PyBullet Github repository [here](https://github.com/bulletphysics/bullet3).
